#summary Technical documentation of rediff tool


`rediff` is a tool for diffing documents of any text-based format by
'Sections', defined using
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression Regular Expressions]
and marking the 'Sections' with custom, format-dependent replacement.





=Problem definition=


==Comparing files==


[http://unixhelp.ed.ac.uk/CGI/man-cgi?diff Diff] utility is used in
Unix-like systems for comparing two text files. It's common usage
is tracking changes in files after modification. The utility performs
comparison on per-line basis:

  * Lines, present in both files are treated as 'Unchanged';
  * Lines, present only in current version of the file and absent in the previous are treated as 'Added';
  * Lines, present only in previous version of the file and absent in the current are treated as 'Removed';
  * If a line is 'Removed' and 'Added' at the same time, it is treated as 'Changed'.

Text files are compared line by line. It means, that an atomic
part of the comparison is a 'line', terminated with 'newline
character sequence' (usually, `\n` or `\r\n`)
or end-of-file. Let's call it "Section". So, in plain text file 'Section'
represents a line of text. It is the simplest way of comparing files and
very useful for code sources, configuration files, plain-text documentation,
etc.

Although, there are formats for which atomic 'Section' can't be represented
as just a line. For example:

 * In [http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/ XHTML], [http://www.w3.org/XML/ XML],  [http://www.docbook.org/ DocBook] and related formats 'Section' is  represented as a fragment of text wrapped in 'Opening' and 'Closing' tags.  For example,  `<p>Single section</p>`. Also, it is not mandatory that such  sections must fit on single line only. Moreover, one section may contain  others (example: `<p>Section with <b>bold text</b> inside</p>`).
 * In Wiki, AsciiDoc, Markdown and other text-based markup languages  'Section' is a fragment of text, defined by the syntax of corresponding  language (header, paragraph, etc.).
 * In RTF files sections are defined with RTF tags.

More formally, comparing should be possible by any kind of section, specified
by format of the file, not only line by line.


==Marking differences in file==

When working on text files with presentation different from plain-text
(such as HTML or DocBook) it is handy to mark changed 'Sections' in it.
Marking method is mostly custom and dependent on format used:

 * In [http://www.docbook.org/ DocBook] differences are marked with `revisionflag` attribute in tags:

  `<simpara revisionflag="changed">Some changed paragraph.</simpara>`

 * In [http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/ HTML/XHTML] it is useful to mark differences with `class` attribute:

  `<p class="changed">Some changed paragraph.</p>`